docs on gitea usage for catalog (#4001)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.1/install/air-gapped/catalog/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Host on Gitea
title: Host on Gitea
menuWeight: 10
excerpt: How to host git repositories on Gitea for air gapped deployments
---

> DKP supports using an external catalog git repository to install applications. In cases where an external repository is not accessible from within the cluster, you can use the Gitea server that comes out-of-box with a Kommander deployment to install applications.

Reviewer: can you add Gitea to the vocab?

## Prerequisites

> 1. `git` needs to be installed in the local environment (from where a connection to air-gapped cluster can be established)

Reviewer: how about "install `git` in the local environment"?

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Host on Gitea
title: Host on Gitea
menuWeight: 10
excerpt: How to host git repositories on Gitea for air gapped deployments
---

> DKP supports using an external catalog git repository to install applications. In cases where an external repository is not accessible from within the cluster, you can use the Gitea server that comes out-of-box with a Kommander deployment to install applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DKP supports using an external catalog git repository to install applications. In cases where an external repository is not accessible from within the cluster, to install applications, use the Gitea server that comes out-of-box with a Kommander deployment.
```

## Prerequisites

> 1. Install `git` in the local environment (from where a connection to air-gapped cluster is established).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Install `git` in the local environment (from where a connection to air-gapped cluster is established).

```

## Host external repository on Gitea

> 1. Set the `VERSION` environment variable to the version of Kommander you want to install, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the Gitea server that comes with a Kommander deployment, follow these steps:

1. Set the `VERSION` environment variable to the version of Kommander you want to install, for example:
```

        --from-literal=username="${GITEA_USERNAME}" \
        --from-literal=password="${GITEA_PASSWORD}"
    ```

    <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>This command needs to be run in Management cluster (where Kommander is installed) and ALL target clusters that belong to the specific Workspace or Project.</p>

1. Optionally, cleanup the certificate and locally cloned repository:

    ```bash
    rm -rf ${GITEA_REPOSITORY_NAME}
    rm /tmp/ca.crt
    ```

1. Run the following command to create the catalog `GitRepository`:

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
    kind: GitRepository
    metadata:
      name: ${GITEA_REPOSITORY_NAME}
      namespace: ${TARGET_NAMESPACE}
      labels:
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitapps-gitrepository-type: catalog
        kommander.d2iq.io/gitrepository-type: catalog
    spec:
      interval: 1m0s
      ref:
        branch: ${GITEA_REPOSITORY_DEFAULT_BRANCH}
      timeout: 20s
      url: https://${GITEA_HOSTNAME}/dkp/kommander/git/${GITEA_USERNAME}/${GITEA_REPOSITORY_NAME}
      secretRef:
        name: ${TARGET_NAMESPACE}
    EOF
    ```

> 1. Once the newly created `GitRepository` on the management cluster is reconciled, corresponding `App`s are loaded by Kommander controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. After the newly created `GitRepository` on the management cluster reconciles, any corresponding `App`s are loaded by Kommander controller.
```
